Stable IPs for Namespace Endpoints (#4219)
temporalio/documentation: docs/cloud/connectivity/ip-addresses.mdx

## Stable IP addresses

Stable IPs is an optional Namespace setting that provides a fixed, published set of IP addresses for your Namespace endpoint. When enabled, Workers and Temporal Clients connecting to your Namespace through its Namespace endpoint will resolve to a predictable set of IP addresses that you can allowlist in your firewall.

### When to use Stable IPs

Use Stable IPs when your security requirements mandate IP-based allowlisting for egress traffic, and you cannot use AWS PrivateLink or GCP Private Services Connect.

**Recommended options for secure connectivity** (in order):

1. **AWS PrivateLink or GCP Private Services Connect** - Keep traffic within your cloud provider's private network
2. **Stable IPs** - Use published, stable IP ranges for firewall allowlisting
3. **Cloud provider IP ranges** - Allowlist all AWS or GCP IP ranges (overly permissive)

Stable IPs provide enterprise-grade compliance for organizations that require IP-based security controls but cannot use private network connectivity options.

### How Stable IPs work

When Stable IPs are enabled on a Namespace:

> - The Namespace endpoint (`<namespace>.<account>.tmprl.cloud`) resolves to IP addresses from a published list of Stable IPs 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Namespace endpoint (`<namespace>.<account>.tmprl.cloud`) resolves to IP addresses from a published list of Stable IPs.
```

  - The list is grouped by cloud region. The Namespace endpoint will resolve to an IP from the group for the Namespace's active region.

> - Workers and Temporal Clients connecting via the Namespace endpoint will connect to these stable IP addresses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Workers and Temporal Clients connecting via the Namespace endpoint will connect to these stable IP addresses.
```

> - Regional endpoints continue to work but resolve to dynamic IP addresses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Regional endpoints continue to work but resolve to dynamic IP addresses.
```

- For replicated Namespaces, the Stable IP corresponds to the Namespace's active region. During failover to a different region, DNS updates to point to a Stable IP in the new active region.

:::note

Stable IPs apply only to Namespace traffic, sometimes called the "data plane." The Temporal Cloud management plane, observability endpoints, and Web UI do not have stable public IP addresses.

:::

### How to enable Stable IPs

Stable IPs is a setting on a public [Connectivity Rule](/cloud/connectivity#connectivity-rules). You enable it by creating (or updating) a public Connectivity Rule with Stable IPs enabled, then attaching that rule to the Namespaces that should resolve to Stable IPs.

You can manage Connectivity Rules through the Cloud Ops API, Terraform provider, or `tcld` CLI. There is no UI option at this time.

To enable Stable IPs:

> 1. Create a public Connectivity Rule with Stable IPs enabled (for example, `tcld connectivity-rule create --connectivity-type public --enable-stable-ips`). Only one public Connectivity Rule exists per account, so if you already have one, update or recreate it with Stable IPs enabled.

Reviewer: Could this command go on a new line under this bullet? Having it inline is a little hard to read.

2. Attach the rule to your Namespace with `tcld namespace set-connectivity-rules` (or the equivalent Cloud Ops API or Terraform call).

> 3. Retrieve the list of Stable IPs from the public API (see below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Retrieve the list of Stable IPs from the [public API](/cloud/connectivity/ip-addresses#how-to-view-stable-ip-ranges).
```

4. Configure your firewall to allowlist the Stable IP ranges for your Namespace's region.
5. Ensure your Workers and Temporal Clients connect using the Namespace endpoint, not regional endpoints.

> You can enable Stable IPs on new Namespaces at creation time or on existing Namespaces. The Cloud Ops API field is `enableStableIps` (boolean) on the `PublicConnectivityRule` message and requires Cloud Ops API `v0.15.0` or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable Stable IPs on new Namespaces at creation time or on existing Namespaces. The Cloud Ops API field is `enableStableIps` on the `PublicConnectivityRule` message and requires Cloud Ops API `v0.15.0` or later.
```

```
https://docs.temporal.io/json/stable-ip-ranges-prod.json
```

The file is publicly accessible without authentication and returns a JSON response grouped by cloud provider and region:

```json
{
  "all_stable_ip_ranges": [
    "34.195.80.228/32",
    "34.195.80.10/30",
    "44.235.214.171/32"
  ],
  "clouds": {
    "aws": {
      "regions": {
        "us-east-1": {
          "stable_ip_ranges": [
            "34.195.80.228/32",
            "34.195.80.10/30"
          ]
        },
        "us-west-2": {
          "stable_ip_ranges": [
            "44.235.214.171/32"
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    "gcp": {
      "regions": {
        ...
      }
    }
  }
}
```

:::note IP format

IP addresses are provided in IPv4 or IPv6 format with CIDR notation. At launch, Temporal uses predominantly `/32` ranges (single IP addresses). Each region typically contains approximately 6 IP addresses.

:::

### How to connect using Stable IPs

To connect to a Namespace with Stable IPs enabled:

1. **Use the Namespace endpoint**: Configure Workers and Temporal Clients to use the Namespace endpoint format: `<namespace>.<account>.tmprl.cloud:7233`

> 2. **Do not use Regional endpoints**: Regional endpoints (`<region>.<cloud>.api.temporal.io`) will route to the Namespace but resolve to dynamic IP addresses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Do not use Regional endpoints**: Regional endpoints (`<region>.<cloud>.api.temporal.io`) will route to the Namespace but resolve to dynamic IP addresses.
```

3. **Do not use PrivateLink**: PrivateLink endpoints do not resolve to Stable IPs. To use Stable IPs, connect over public endpoints.

Stable IPs work with both mTLS certificate-based authentication and API key authentication.

If your Workers run on the same cloud provider as your Namespace (for example, both on AWS), traffic stays on the cloud provider's backbone network and does not traverse the public internet, even when using public Stable IPs. AWS, GCP, and Azure all guarantee that traffic between locations on their networks never leaves their backbone.

### How to migrate to Stable IPs

> When you enable Stable IPs on an existing Namespace:

Reviewer: The section from line 347-365 confused me because it's the first thing under migrations. Could this be moved up to the `When to use Stable IPs` section? Then `How to migrate to Stable IPs` can start with `How to migrate from AWS PrivateLink to Stable IPs`?

Reviewer 2: Had to think about this, but the "migrate" section refers to applying Stable IPs to an *existing* namespace. Whereas everything above that applies to a new namespace. It's the "new" part that isn't entirely clear, so I'll make a fix.

  - psc
  - whitelist
  - stable ips
  - static ips
---

By default, Temporal Cloud resources use dynamic IP addresses that may change at any time. These IP addresses may be any IPs within the IP ranges published by the relevant cloud provider.

If you need to limit outbound access from your client network, we recommend using [AWS PrivateLink or GCP Private Services Connect](/cloud/connectivity#private-network-connectivity-for-namespaces). Alternatively, you can enable Stable IPs for your Namespace.

:::warning Do not allowlist default dynamic IP addresses

**By default, Temporal Cloud IPs are not static and may change without notice.**

Do not allowlist specific IP addresses you see Temporal Cloud services using at a point in time, as this **will cause an outage** when those IPs change. Your clients will not be able to connect to Temporal Cloud.

If you have to allowlist IP ranges without using Stable IPs, you must allowlist the entire cloud provider IP range:
- [AWS IP address ranges](https://ip-ranges.amazonaws.com/ip-ranges.json)
- [GCP IP address ranges](https://www.gstatic.com/ipranges/cloud.json)

:::

## When Namespace Endpoint DNS resolution is predictable

> In general, do not take dependencies on what Temporal Cloud endpoints resolve to over DNS. The resolved values are subject to change without notice, and Workers, Temporal Clients, and firewalls that target the specific IPs you observe at a point in time will eventually fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In general, do not take dependencies on what Temporal Cloud endpoints resolve to over DNS. The resolved values are subject to change without notice, and Workers, Temporal Clients, and firewalls that target the specific IPs provided at a specific point in time will eventually fail.
```

Temporal Cloud guarantees the DNS resolution behavior of the Namespace Endpoint in two cases:

1. **Stable IPs enabled.** The Namespace Endpoint resolves to one of the Stable IPs for the Namespace's active region. The set of Stable IPs is published and changes only on a managed schedule, so it is safe to allowlist them in a firewall. See [Stable IP addresses](#stable-ip-addresses) below.
2. **High Availability features with Private Connectivity.** The Namespace Endpoint resolves via CNAME to the regional intermediary `<provider>-<region>.region.tmprl.cloud` for the active region. You can override that record in a Route 53 private hosted zone or GCP private DNS zone to direct traffic to your VPC Endpoint, and Temporal Cloud updates the CNAME on failover so the override stays correct. See [Connectivity for High Availability](/cloud/high-availability/ha-connectivity) for the full setup.

> For all other connectivity patterns, treat the resolved IP as ephemeral and use one of the two approaches above, or allowlist the entire cloud provider IP range.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For all other connectivity patterns, treat the resolved IP as temporary and use one of the two approaches above, or allowlist the entire cloud provider IP range.
```

1. **AWS PrivateLink or GCP Private Services Connect** - Keep traffic within your cloud provider's private network
2. **Stable IPs** - Use published, stable IP ranges for firewall allowlisting
3. **Cloud provider IP ranges** - Allowlist all AWS or GCP IP ranges (overly permissive)

Stable IPs provide enterprise-grade compliance for organizations that require IP-based security controls but cannot use private network connectivity options.

### How Stable IPs work

When Stable IPs are enabled on a Namespace:

- The Namespace endpoint (`<namespace>.<account>.tmprl.cloud`) resolves to IP addresses from a published list of Stable IPs 
  - The list is grouped by cloud region. The Namespace endpoint will resolve to an IP from the group for the Namespace's active region.
- Workers and Temporal Clients connecting via the Namespace endpoint will connect to these stable IP addresses
- Regional endpoints continue to work but resolve to dynamic IP addresses
- For replicated Namespaces, the Stable IP corresponds to the Namespace's active region. During failover to a different region, DNS updates to point to a Stable IP in the new active region.

> **Important**: Stable IPs apply only to Namespace traffic, sometimes called the "data plane." The Temporal Cloud management plane, observability endpoints, and Web UI do not have stable public IP addresses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::note

Stable IPs apply only to Namespace traffic, sometimes called the "data plane." The Temporal Cloud management plane, observability endpoints, and Web UI do not have stable public IP addresses.

:::
```

### How to enable Stable IPs

Stable IPs is a setting on a public [Connectivity Rule](/cloud/connectivity#connectivity-rules). You enable it by creating (or updating) a public Connectivity Rule with Stable IPs enabled, then attaching that rule to the Namespaces that should resolve to Stable IPs.

You can manage Connectivity Rules through the Cloud Ops API, Terraform provider, or `tcld` CLI. There is no UI option at this time.

To enable Stable IPs:

> 1. Create a public Connectivity Rule with Stable IPs enabled (for example, `tcld connectivity-rule create --connectivity-type public --enable-stable-ips`). Only one public Connectivity Rule exists per account, so if you already have one, update or recreate it with Stable IPs enabled.

Reviewer 2: Is the flag properly `enable-stable-ips` as shown here, or `enable_stable_ips` as shown in Step 2 below?

Author: In the CLI, it uses dashes, `-`

Author: In the REST API, it is `enableStableIps`, I'll fix

2. Attach the rule to your Namespace with `tcld namespace set-connectivity-rules` (or the equivalent Cloud Ops API or Terraform call).
3. Retrieve the list of Stable IPs from the public API (see below).
4. Configure your firewall to allowlist the Stable IP ranges for your Namespace's region.
5. Ensure your Workers and Temporal Clients connect using the Namespace endpoint, not regional endpoints.

> You can enable Stable IPs on new Namespaces at creation time or on existing Namespaces. The Cloud Ops API field is `enable_stable_ips` on the `PublicConnectivityRule` message and requires Cloud Ops API `v0.15.0` or later.

Author: ```suggestion
You can enable Stable IPs on new Namespaces at creation time or on existing Namespaces. The Cloud Ops API field is `enableStableIps` (boolean) on the `PublicConnectivityRule` message and requires Cloud Ops API `v0.15.0` or later.
```

> **DNS propagation**: When enabling Stable IPs on an existing Namespace, Temporal updates DNS records to point the Namespace endpoint to Stable IPs. DNS propagation typically takes 5 to 15 minutes for AWS, but can take up to 60 minutes or longer if you have custom TTLs configured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::note DNS propagation

When enabling Stable IPs on an existing Namespace, Temporal updates DNS records to point the Namespace endpoint to Stable IPs. DNS propagation typically takes 5 to 15 minutes for AWS, but can take up to 60 minutes or longer if you have custom TTLs configured.

:::
```

#### How to enable Stable IPs with curl

> If you cannot use `tcld` or Terraform, you can drive the Cloud Ops API directly. The following walkthrough creates a public Connectivity Rule with Stable IPs enabled and attaches it to a Namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you cannot use `tcld` or Terraform, you can access the Cloud Ops API directly. The following procedure creates a public Connectivity Rule with Stable IPs enabled and attaches it to a Namespace.
```

  -H "$H_AUTH" -H "$H_VER" | tee /tmp/ns.json | \
  jq '{resource_version: .namespace.resourceVersion, connectivity_rule_ids: .namespace.spec.connectivityRuleIds}'

RV=$(jq -r '.namespace.resourceVersion' /tmp/ns.json)
```

**Step 2. Create a public Connectivity Rule with Stable IPs enabled.**

```bash
curl -sS -X POST "https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/cloud/connectivity-rules" \
  -H "$H_AUTH" -H "$H_VER" -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
        "spec": {
          "publicRule": { "enableStableIps": true }
        }
      }' | tee /tmp/cr.json

CR_ID=$(jq -r '.connectivityRuleId' /tmp/cr.json)
OP_ID=$(jq -r '.asyncOperation.id // .asyncOperation.operationId' /tmp/cr.json)
```

Field names follow proto3 JSON camelCase: `enable_stable_ips` becomes `enableStableIps`.

**Step 3. Wait for the create operation to reach a terminal state.**

```bash
curl -sS "https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/cloud/operations/$OP_ID" \
  -H "$H_AUTH" -H "$H_VER" | jq '.asyncOperation.state'
```

Re-run until `state` is `FULFILLED` (the rule is now `ACTIVE`). Any `*_FAILED` state means you should stop and inspect the operation.

**Step 4. Attach the rule to the Namespace.**

> `UpdateNamespace` posts the whole `NamespaceSpec` back. Mutate the spec from Step 1 by appending `$CR_ID` to `connectivityRuleIds`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`UpdateNamespace` posts the whole `NamespaceSpec` back. Update the spec from Step 1 by appending `$CR_ID` to `connectivityRuleIds`:
```

```bash
jq --arg id "$CR_ID" --arg rv "$RV" --arg ns "$NS" '
  {
    namespace: $ns,
    resourceVersion: $rv,
    spec: (.namespace.spec
           | .connectivityRuleIds = ((.connectivityRuleIds // []) + [$id]))
  }' /tmp/ns.json > /tmp/update.json

curl -sS -X POST "https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/cloud/namespaces/$NS" \
  -H "$H_AUTH" -H "$H_VER" -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d @/tmp/update.json | tee /tmp/update-resp.json
```

Poll the returned `asyncOperation` the same way as Step 3.

> **Gotchas:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Take note of the following:
```

- Stable IPs requires `temporal-cloud-api-version` of `v0.15.0` or later.

#### How to enable Stable IPs with gRPC

If you prefer to call the Cloud Ops API directly over gRPC (for example, with `grpcurl` or a generated client), the same flow uses the [CloudService](https://github.com/temporalio/api-cloud) gRPC API. Proto definitions live in [`temporal/api/cloud/cloudservice/v1/service.proto`](https://github.com/temporalio/api-cloud/blob/main/temporal/api/cloud/cloudservice/v1/service.proto) and [`temporal/api/cloud/connectivityrule/v1/message.proto`](https://github.com/temporalio/api-cloud/blob/main/temporal/api/cloud/connectivityrule/v1/message.proto).

- Endpoint: `saas-api.tmprl.cloud:443` (TLS required)
- Fully qualified service: `temporal.api.cloud.cloudservice.v1.CloudService`
- Required metadata on every call:
  - `authorization: Bearer $TEMPORAL_CLOUD_OPS_API_KEY`
  - `temporal-cloud-api-version: v0.16.0` (or any version ≥ `v0.15.0`)

> The examples below use `grpcurl`. They assume you have a local checkout of [`temporalio/api-cloud`](https://github.com/temporalio/api-cloud) at `./api-cloud` and a `proto/` directory containing the standard `google/api/annotations.proto` and friends.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The examples below use `grpcurl`. They assume you have a local checkout of [`temporalio/api-cloud`](https://github.com/temporalio/api-cloud) at `./api-cloud` and a `proto/` directory containing the standard `google/api/annotations.proto` and associated files.
```

RV=$(jq -r '.namespace.resourceVersion' /tmp/ns.json)
```

**Step 2. Create a public Connectivity Rule with Stable IPs enabled.**

```bash
grpcurl "${PROTO_FLAGS[@]}" "${GRPC_HEADERS[@]}" \
  -d '{
        "spec": {
          "public_rule": { "enable_stable_ips": true }
        }
      }' \
  saas-api.tmprl.cloud:443 \
  temporal.api.cloud.cloudservice.v1.CloudService/CreateConnectivityRule | tee /tmp/cr.json

CR_ID=$(jq -r '.connectivityRuleId' /tmp/cr.json)
OP_ID=$(jq -r '.asyncOperation.id' /tmp/cr.json)
```

Field names in gRPC JSON requests can use either snake_case (proto field names) or camelCase — `grpcurl` accepts both. Responses come back in camelCase.

**Step 3. Wait for the create operation to reach a terminal state.**

```bash
grpcurl "${PROTO_FLAGS[@]}" "${GRPC_HEADERS[@]}" \
  -d "{\"async_operation_id\": \"$OP_ID\"}" \
  saas-api.tmprl.cloud:443 \
  temporal.api.cloud.cloudservice.v1.CloudService/GetAsyncOperation | jq '.asyncOperation.state'
```

Re-run until `state` is `FULFILLED` (the rule is now `ACTIVE`). Any `*_FAILED` state means you should stop and inspect the operation.

**Step 4. Attach the rule to the Namespace.**

> `UpdateNamespace` posts the whole `NamespaceSpec` back. Mutate the spec from Step 1 by appending `$CR_ID` to `connectivity_rule_ids`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`UpdateNamespace` posts the whole `NamespaceSpec` back. Update the spec from Step 1 by appending `$CR_ID` to `connectivity_rule_ids`:
```

```bash
jq --arg id "$CR_ID" --arg rv "$RV" --arg ns "$NS" '
  {
    namespace: $ns,
    resource_version: $rv,
    spec: (.namespace.spec
           | .connectivity_rule_ids = ((.connectivityRuleIds // []) + [$id]))
  }' /tmp/ns.json > /tmp/update.json

grpcurl "${PROTO_FLAGS[@]}" "${GRPC_HEADERS[@]}" \
  -d @ \
  saas-api.tmprl.cloud:443 \
  temporal.api.cloud.cloudservice.v1.CloudService/UpdateNamespace < /tmp/update.json | tee /tmp/update-resp.json
```

Poll the returned `asyncOperation` the same way as Step 3.

> **Gotchas:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Take note of the following:
```

- Stable IPs requires `temporal-cloud-api-version` of `v0.15.0` or later.
- Authentication uses Cloud API keys; mTLS client certificates are not accepted on `saas-api.tmprl.cloud`. The metadata key is `authorization` (lowercase), per the gRPC convention.

### How to view Stable IP ranges

Retrieve the list of Stable IP ranges from the public API:

```
GET https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/stable-ip-ranges
```

This API is publicly accessible without authentication and returns a JSON response grouped by cloud provider and region:

```json
{
  "all_stable_ip_ranges": [
    "34.195.80.228/32",
    "34.195.80.10/30",
    "44.235.214.171/32"
  ],
  "clouds": {
    "aws": {
      "regions": {
        "us-east-1": {
          "stable_ip_ranges": [
            "34.195.80.228/32",
            "34.195.80.10/30"
          ]
        },
        "us-west-2": {
          "stable_ip_ranges": [
            "44.235.214.171/32"
          ]
        }
      }
    },
    "gcp": {
      "regions": {
        ...
      }
    }
  }
}
```

You can also load this URL in a browser to view the list.

> **IP format**: IP addresses are provided in IPv4 or IPv6 format with CIDR notation. At launch, Temporal uses predominantly `/32` ranges (single IP addresses). Each region typically contains approximately 6 IP addresses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::note IP format

IP addresses are provided in IPv4 or IPv6 format with CIDR notation. At launch, Temporal uses predominantly `/32` ranges (single IP addresses). Each region typically contains approximately 6 IP addresses.

:::
```

### How to connect using Stable IPs

To connect to a Namespace with Stable IPs enabled:

1. **Use the Namespace endpoint**: Configure Workers and Temporal Clients to use the Namespace endpoint format: `<namespace>.<account>.tmprl.cloud:7233`
2. **Do not use Regional endpoints**: Regional endpoints (`<region>.<cloud>.api.temporal.io`) will route to the Namespace but resolve to dynamic IP addresses
3. **Do not use PrivateLink**: PrivateLink endpoints do not resolve to Stable IPs. To use Stable IPs, connect over public endpoints.

> **Authentication**: Stable IPs work with both mTLS certificate-based authentication and API key authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stable IPs work with both mTLS certificate-based authentication and API key authentication.
```

> **Network routing**: If your Workers run on the same cloud provider as your Namespace (for example, both on AWS), traffic stays on the cloud provider's backbone network and does not traverse the public internet, even when using public Stable IPs. AWS, GCP, and Azure all guarantee that traffic between locations on their networks never leaves their backbone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your Workers run on the same cloud provider as your Namespace (for example, both on AWS), traffic stays on the cloud provider's backbone network and does not traverse the public internet, even when using public Stable IPs. AWS, GCP, and Azure all guarantee that traffic between locations on their networks never leaves their backbone.
```

### How to migrate to Stable IPs

When you enable Stable IPs on an existing Namespace:

**Workers using Namespace endpoints**:
- Existing connections continue uninterrupted
- DNS updates to point the Namespace endpoint to Stable IPs
- Existing connections remain connected to their current dynamic IP
- New connections automatically use Stable IPs after DNS propagates
- No Worker restart required

**Workers using Regional endpoints**:
- Existing connections continue uninterrupted
- To use Stable IPs, update Worker configuration to use the Namespace endpoint and restart Workers

**Workers using PrivateLink**:
- Existing connections continue uninterrupted through PrivateLink
- To use Stable IPs, update Worker configuration to use the Namespace endpoint and restart Workers
- Note: You cannot use both PrivateLink and Stable IPs simultaneously

> **Connectivity Rules**: Stable IPs is set as the `enable_stable_ips` flag on a public [Connectivity Rule](/cloud/connectivity#connectivity-rules). Every Namespace that should resolve to Stable IPs must have that public Connectivity Rule attached. Namespaces without the rule attached continue to resolve to dynamic IPs.

Reviewer 2: Is the flag properly `enable_stable_ips` as shown here, or `enable-stable-ips` as shown in Step 2 below?

Author: `enableStableIps` probably makes the most sense here, will change

> **Connectivity Rules**: Stable IPs is set as the `enable_stable_ips` flag on a public [Connectivity Rule](/cloud/connectivity#connectivity-rules). Every Namespace that should resolve to Stable IPs must have that public Connectivity Rule attached. Namespaces without the rule attached continue to resolve to dynamic IPs.

Author: ```suggestion
**Connectivity Rules**: Stable IPs is enabled when the `enableStableIps` config is `true` on a public [Connectivity Rule](/cloud/connectivity#connectivity-rules). Every Namespace that should resolve to Stable IPs must have that public Connectivity Rule attached. Namespaces without the rule attached continue to resolve to dynamic IPs.
```

#### How to migrate from AWS PrivateLink to Stable IPs

If your Namespace is currently reached over AWS PrivateLink and protected by a private Connectivity Rule, the safe migration path is to add the public path while the private path is still working, verify, and then remove the private path. This applies whether your Namespace is single-region or replicated.

**Prerequisites:**

- Note your existing private (PrivateLink) Connectivity Rule ID — you'll keep it attached during the overlap window.
- Check whether your account already has a public Connectivity Rule. Only one is allowed per account; if one exists without Stable IPs enabled, you'll need to delete and recreate it (see [Permissions and limits](/cloud/connectivity#permissions-and-limits)).
- Confirm that the VPCs and security groups that host your Workers and Temporal Clients allow egress to the Stable IP ranges on port `443`. If your egress is currently locked down to the PrivateLink VPC endpoint, you must expand it first.

**Steps:**

> 1. **Allowlist Stable IPs in your firewall first.** Fetch the IP ranges for your Namespace's region from `https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/stable-ip-ranges` and add them to your egress allowlist before changing anything else. If you skip this, the cutover will black-hole traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Allowlist Stable IPs in your firewall first.** Fetch the IP ranges for your Namespace's region from `https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/stable-ip-ranges` and add them to your egress allowlist before changing anything else. If you skip this step, traffic will be lost.
```

5. **Verify traffic is flowing over Stable IPs.** On a Worker host, run `dig <namespace>.<account>.tmprl.cloud` and confirm the answer is a Stable IP from the `/stable-ip-ranges` list, not your VPC endpoint IP. Confirm Workers are polling and there are no `RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED` or connection errors in their logs.

6. **Detach the private Connectivity Rule.** Once you are confident all traffic is on the public path, remove the private rule by re-attaching only the public rule:

   ```bash
   tcld namespace set-connectivity-rules \
     --namespace "<namespace>.<account>" \
     --connectivity-rule-ids "<public-rule-id>"
   ```

7. **(Optional) Tear down the PrivateLink VPC endpoint** in AWS to stop incurring PrivateLink hourly and data-processing charges. Do not do this until step 6 has been stable for at least a few hours.

> **Gotchas:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Take note of the following:
```

- Do not remove the private Connectivity Rule before step 4. If you detach the private rule while Workers are still resolving the Namespace endpoint to the PrivateLink VPC endpoint, Temporal Cloud will block those connections at the edge.
- A single connection uses one network path or the other. Workers connect over either PrivateLink or Stable IPs based on DNS resolution at connect time. There is no in-place switch without dropping the connection — that's why step 4 includes a Worker restart.
- Same-region traffic still stays on the AWS backbone over Stable IPs (since both your Worker and the Namespace are in AWS), so you do not lose the "does not traverse the public internet" property by moving off PrivateLink.
- TLS and SNI do not change. You are still hitting the Namespace endpoint (`<namespace>.<account>.tmprl.cloud`); only the IP it resolves to changes. mTLS and API key authentication continue to work unchanged.

### Changes to Stable IP ranges

Temporal aims to keep Stable IP ranges consistent. Each Stable IP address is expected to remain active for at least 12 months.

> **When Stable IPs are added**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When Stable IPs are added:
```

1. New IP ranges appear in the API response before traffic is routed to them
2. Update your firewall to include the new ranges
3. Temporal announces the activation date in the [Temporal Cloud changelog](https://temporal.io/change-log)
4. Traffic begins routing to new IP ranges on the announced date

> **If a Stable IP must be removed** (rare):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a Stable IP must be removed (rare):
```

1. The IP range is marked as deprecated and removed from the API response
2. Traffic continues to route through the deprecated IP for a 3-month deprecation period
3. Temporal announces the deprecation and removal date in the changelog and documentation
4. After the deprecation period, traffic stops routing to the deprecated IP

Temporal will never route traffic to IP addresses that are not listed in the API response.

### Regional availability

Stable IPs are rolling out by cloud provider and region:

- **AWS**: Starting with us-west-2, expanding to all regions
- **GCP**: Rolling out to regions following AWS
- **New regions**: All new Temporal Cloud regions include Stable IPs at launch

> Contact [Temporal support](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/support) if you need Stable IPs in a region that does not yet have them. Temporal may be able to prioritize enabling Stable IPs in your region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Contact [Temporal support](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/support) if you need Stable IPs in a region that does not yet have them. 
```

### Pricing

Temporal Cloud does not charge additional fees for using Stable IPs.

### How to disable Stable IPs

> You can disable Stable IPs on a Namespace using the Cloud Ops API, Terraform, or CLI. Temporal performs a DNS update to point the Namespace endpoint back to dynamic IP addresses.

Author: ```suggestion
You can disable Stable IPs on a Namespace by detaching the public Connectivity Rule from that Namespace. Temporal performs a DNS update to point the Namespace endpoint back to dynamic IP addresses.
```
